---
title: aws-s3-cont
tags: []
date: 2020-04-09 22:23:54
---
## S3 security and encryption

Encryption In Transit is achieved by
- SSL/TLS

Server Side Encryption
- S3 Managed Keys - SSE-S3
- AWS Key Management Service, Managed Keys - SSE-KMS
- Server Side Encryption with Client Provided Keys - SSE-C


## S3 versioning With S3;
Stores all versions of an object(including all wirtes and event if you delete an object)
Greate backup tool
Once enabled, Versioning cannot be disabled, only suspended
Integrates with Lifecycle rules
Versioning's `MFA Delete` capability, which uses multi-factor authentication, 

## Lifecycle Management with S3
1. Automate moving your objects between the different storage tiers.
2. Can be used in cojunction with versioning.
3. can be applied to current versions and previous versions

## AWS Organizations & Consolidated Billing

- Always enable multi-facotr authentication on root account
- Always use a strong and complex password on root account
- Paying account should be used for billing purposes only. Do not deploy resources into the paying account
- Enabled/Disable AWS services using Service Control Policies(SCP) either on OU or indevidual accounts.

## Share s3 bucket Across Accounts

- Using Bucket Policies * IAM (applies across the entire bucket). Programmatic Access Only.
- Using bucket ACLs & IAM(individual objects). Programmatic Access Only.
- Cross-account IAM Roles, Programatic and console access.

## Cross Region Replication
- Versioning must be enabled on both the source and destination buckets.
- Files in an existsing bucket are not replicated automatically.
- All subsequent updated files will be replicated automatically.
- Delete markers are not replicated.
- Deleting individual versions or delete markders will not be replicated.
- Understand what Cross Region Repliction is at a high level.

## S3 transfer Acceleration
Accelerate your uploads to S3

- google it `s3 transfer acceleration tool`
- https://s3-accelerate-speedtest.s3-accelerate.amazonaws.com/en/accelerate-speed-comparsion.html
> this is where 

## Cloud Front Overview
- Edge Locatin - This is the location where content will be cached. This is separate to nan AWS Region/AZ
- Origin - This is the origin of all the files that the CDN will distribute. This can be either an S3 Bucket an EC2 Instance, an Elastic Load Balancer, or Route53
- Distribution - This is the name given the CDN which consists of a collection of Edge Locations
Web Distribution - Typically used for Websites
RTMP - Used for Media Steaming
- Edge location are not just `READ` only - you can write to them too.(ie, put an object on to them)
- Objects are cached for the life of the TTL (Time To Live)
- You can clear cached object, but you will be charged.

## Snowball
- Snowball
- Snowball edge
- Snowball Mobile
- Snowball is a petabyte-scale datat ransport solution
- Snowball can Import to S3
- Snowball can Export from S3 

## Storage Gateway
- File Gateway (NFS & SMB)
    - For flat files, stored directly on S3
- Volume Gateway (iSCSI)
    - Stored volumes - Entire Dataset is stored on site and is asynchronously backed up to S3.
    - Cached Volumes - Entire Dataset is stored on S3 and the most frequently accessed data is cached on site.

- Gateway Virtual Tape Library
